.TH ASK-CMD 1 "2024" "ask-cmd v1.0.1" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ask-cmd \- convert natural language requests into Linux shell commands using AI
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ask-cmd
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] <command request>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ask-cmd
is a CLI tool that uses AI to convert natural language requests into appropriate shell commands. It presents the generated command for review before execution.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-provider \fIprovider\fR
Set the completion provider. Possible values: openai, groq, openai-like. Required.
.TP
.B \-\-base-url \fIurl\fR
Set the base URL for the completion provider. Required for openai-like.
.TP
.B \-\-api-key \fIkey\fR
Set the API key for the completion provider.
.TP
.B \-\-model-id \fIid\fR
Set the model ID for the completion provider.
.TP
.B \-\-prompt-template \fItemplate\fR
Set the template to use for the prompt.
.TP
.B \-\-help
Display help information.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Display version information.
.TP
.B \-\-show-config
Show the current configuration.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B ASK_CMD_PROVIDER
Alternative to \-\-provider
.TP
.B ASK_CMD_API_KEY
Alternative to \-\-api-key
.TP
.B OPENAI_API_KEY
OpenAI-specific API key
.TP
.B GROQ_API_KEY
Groq-specific API key
.TP
.B ASK_CMD_MODEL_ID
Alternative to \-\-model-id
.TP
.B ASK_CMD_BASE_URL
Alternative to \-\-base-url
.TP
.B ASK_CMD_PROMPT_TEMPLATE
Alternative to \-\-prompt-template
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Show all running processes:
.PP
.RS 4
ask-cmd "show all running processes"
.RE
.PP
Find PDF files:
.PP
.RS 4
ask-cmd "find all pdf files in current directory"
.RE
.SH KEYS
.TP
.B ENTER
Execute the generated command
.TP
.B CTRL+C or ESC
Exit without executing
.SH REQUIREMENTS
Deno 2 or later is required to build the project.
.SH AUTHORS
Igor Aguiar Rodrigues <igoraguiarr@gmail.com>
.SH SEE ALSO
Full documentation at: https://github.com/username/ask-cmd
